a cold autumn rain hangs on the rose
hips
the last harvest of the year
the days of succulent young plants are
long gone soon there will be nothing
left to eat this is why bears hibernate
with no more food to be found
the Bears slow down their bodies to
sleep until spring
mother has led them to the canyon the
shorter days trigger hormones acting
like sleeping pills making them drowsy
while hibernating their heart rate will
drop from ninety to eight beats per
minute they'll go without eating
drinking or passing waste for seven
months
a time for suckling is almost over
the first snow on the mountaintops
signals the change in seasons but true
to form
mum is well prepared
with Grizzlies and coyotes about she's
already found a secure den site deep in
the canyon but the slope is loose and
treacherous
she's been digging this den
concealed by a fallen tree for weeks
bears slumber likely while hibernating
keeping their brains at a higher
temperature than the rest of their
bodies if trouble comes they can still
respond with good reason
Grizzlies have been known to dig up dens
and eat black bears alive this winter
the family will hibernate together
thanks to their mother the Cubs have
made it through their first summer at
times they've been lucky to survive next
summer
she'll abandon them
their lessons over the Cubs will have to
make it on their own
but by then they'll be ready to go their
separate ways in Big Sky Country